---
version: 0.3.0
date: 6 May 2025
labbcat_version: 20250430.1502
stats:
  same_as: 0.2.2
---

This is a "preview" version of APLS.
We are still adding new transcripts and refining the UI, so the data is subject to change in minor ways.


#### New features
{:.no_toc}

The user interface has been rebuilt on LaBB-CAT version 20250430.1502.
The modified UI provides a user experience that is more informative, more consistent across pages, more streamlined, more tightly interwoven with the APLS documentation, and more customizable by the end-user.
It is informed by Dan's experience as both a user and maintainer of LaBB-CAT corpora.
Some of these features may make their way into the main trunk of LaBB-CAT development in the future.


##### Layer picker
{:.no_toc}

The layer picker appears in various forms on different pages:

- Individual [transcript pages]({{ '/doc/view-transcript' | relative_url }}): Selects layers to display
- [Search page]({{ '/doc/search' | relative_url }}): Selects layers to search
- [Transcripts]({{ '/doc/browse-transcripts' | relative_url }}) and [search results]({{ '/doc/export-data' | relative_url }}) pages: Selects attributes and layers to export

{% include compare-ui.html file="layer-picker/search" title_suffix="Search page" caption="The file picker when first loading the search page" %}

- **More icons**: Previously, icons only displayed layer [alignment]({{ '/doc/layer-typology#alignment-and-horizontal-peers' | relative_url }}). Now, icons correspond to [data type]({{ '/doc/layer-typology#data-type' | relative_url }}) and [vertical peers]({{ '/doc/layer-typology#vertical-peers' | relative_url }}) as well.
  - **Hideable**: Because this means more visual clutter, these icons can be toggled on and off by clicking _Hide layer icons_. This setting persists if you visit more pages in the same browser tab.
  - **Available on more pages**: Previously, icons were only visible on the transcript and search pages. Now, because icons can be hidden, they are visible on the transcripts and search results pages as well (where they are hidden by default to avoid clutter)
  - **More intuitive alignment**: For technical reasons relating to the [annotation graph][fromont-2017] data structure, <span class="layer-id">turn</span>, <span class="layer-id">word</span>, and <span class="layer-id">segment</span> have "Sub-interval" alignment even though intuitively they should have "Complete interval" alignment. The layer picker now shows them as having "Complete interval" alignment.
- **Attribute prefixes**: On the transcripts and search results pages, the layer picker allows participant and transcript [attributes]({{ '/doc/attribute-typology' | relative_url}}) to be selected as well as layers. Most attributes start with the prefix `participant_` or `transcript_`. Previously, the layer picker hid these prefixes to avoid visual clutter, but this could create confusion when an exported CSV file had column headers that appeared different than in the layer picker. Now, the layer picker on the transcripts and search results pages gives users the option to toggle attribute prefixes on and off by clicking _Hide attribute prefixes_.
- **Real attribute names**: Previously, the layer picker displayed "Name" for the <span class="participant-attr">participant</span> and <span class="transcript-attr">transcript</span> attributes, since these were under columns labeled "Participant" and "Transcript". In keeping with a move toward representing attribute and layer names consistently across contexts (UI and documentation), the layer picker now displays "participant" and "transcript".
- **Attribute tooltips**: Hovering over layer/attribute names brings up a tooltip with information about the layer/attribute. Previously, layer tooltips had longer descriptions but attribute tooltips only had attributes' [display titles](https://djvill.github.io/APLS/doc/attribute-typology#display-title). Now, attribute tooltips have longer descriptions.
  - **Cursor**: Previously, it wasn't obvious that you could hover over a layer/attribute name to bring up a longer description. Now, the mouse pointer changes to a ["help" cursor](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/cursor) to cue users to this fact.
- **Annotation counts**: On individual transcript pages, the layer picker displays the number of annotations on that layer in that transcript.
  - **Hideable**: Like the layer icons, annotation counts can be toggled on and off, and this setting persists across the browser tab.
- **Empty layers**: On individual transcript pages, the layer picker shows empty layers in gray, with a checkbox that is grayed-out (cannot be selected) and icons that are grayed-out.
- **Preselected layers**: On individual transcript pages, the <span class="layer-id">word</span> layer is always shown by default and cannot be un-shown. The layer picker makes this clearer by showing the word layer with a checkbox that is selected and grayed-out (cannot be deselected).
- **Docpage links**: The new controls bar at the bottom of the layer picker not only controls for hiding icons, annotation counts, and attribute prefixes, it also links to relevant documentation pages.

{% include linklist.html %}
